Welcome back. Today's guest speaker needs no introduction — she's a principal researcher at a major AI lab.
Thank you. I'm thrilled to talk about where large language models are heading.
Five years ago, GPT-2's 1.5 billion parameters felt enormous. Today that's a small model.
The scaling hypothesis has largely been validated: more compute, more data, better models.
But we're seeing diminishing returns on pure scale. The field is pivoting toward efficiency.
Mixture of Experts architectures route tokens to specialized subnetworks, reducing active parameter count.
GPT-4 and Gemini are believed to use MoE — you get large model capacity at lower inference cost.
Reasoning capabilities are the next frontier. Chain-of-thought prompting showed models can self-explain.
o1 and its successors demonstrate that extended thinking at inference time dramatically improves accuracy.
The model learns to verify its own reasoning steps, catching errors before outputting a final answer.
Multimodality is now table stakes. Text, images, audio, video — models need to process all of them.
The interesting question is whether separate encoders per modality beat a unified architecture.
Early evidence suggests native multimodal training outperforms bolt-on vision adapters.
Context windows have grown from 4K to over a million tokens. Does this replace RAG?
Not entirely. Long contexts have attention costs that scale quadratically with length.
RAG is still more cost-effective for large dynamic corpora that change frequently.
Agentic AI is the paradigm shift I'm most excited about. Models that plan, use tools, and self-correct.
Function calling lets models invoke external APIs — search, code execution, database queries.
The challenge is reliability. Agents fail in unpredictable ways when pipelines grow complex.
Evaluation is the hardest unsolved problem. Benchmarks saturate quickly; real-world performance varies.
Alignment research is keeping pace imperfectly with capability gains — that gap concerns me.
Constitutional AI and RLHF are our current best tools, but they're not sufficient at frontier scale.
The most important skill for engineers entering this field is rigorous evaluation methodology.
Anyone can prompt an LLM. Very few people can tell you whether it actually works reliably.
My advice: build things, measure them carefully, and stay skeptical of your own results.
The field moves fast but the fundamentals — data quality, eval rigor, clear problem framing — are stable.
Happy to take questions. What are you all most curious about?